---

title: 'Bethaney Butler August 16, 1984 â€“- October 13, 2020'
date: '2020-10-15T16:52:00-07:00'
slug: bethaney-butler

---

My sister Bethaney died on Monday night local time in Madang, Papua New Guinea. She had just turned 36 in August. The
cause was a severe case of cerebral malaria. It was sudden and unexpected. We knew she had fallen sick, but we've
weathered countless illnesses over the years in PNG so we have a good sense of severity. This one snuck up on us. My
parents called me at 5:40pm and they were performing CPR in the haus sik (hospital) by 8:40. It was mid-afternoon
Tuesday in PNG time.

My parents are in the US, in Tennessee, where my dad grew up. Because of travel restrictions, none of us will be able to
go to PNG. If it was any other year, Autumn and I would already be on our way to PNG, as would my parents. Everyone that
knew Bethaney has unanimously agreed that she would want to be buried in Likan, the Waran village where she and I grew
up. So I don't think COVID made any difference in us getting her body back to the US -- she was at home in PNG, and we
would be going there, not bringing her back here.

On news of her death, members of our Waran family immediately made plans to get to Madang to ensure she had family with
her -- knowing we could not. There has been a haus krai (literally "house (of) cry(ing)", a place of mourning) set up
for her in Madang, the town where she lived as an adult. It's been moved to a bigger location once already.

It's difficult to explain, but I am glad her death was to malaria. It is an illness the PNG people know and understand
well. Everyone in PNG has lost someone to malaria or its complications. It's not confusing, and it can't be easily
recharacterized as "sorcery" or other superstitions that crop up in PNG culture. It is fitting that Bethaney die from an
illness that takes so many Papua New Guineans - because she always saw herself as more Papua New Guinean than anything
else.

On Monday PNG time, the body will be flown to Likan, the village where we grew up, and where several of you visited last
summer. There, the funeral preparations will begin. There will be another haus krai, and the mourning will commence.
This is the part that I am most heartbroken to not be present for. In PNG, mourning is intense, it is full body, it is
loud, and it is characterized by wailing. It is not something that can be described. It is pure anguish, laid bare for
all to see, and there is no shame in the pain. It is collective, like so many customs in PNG.

When I returned in 2018 after being gone for 18 years, dozens of village women hugged me with such ferocity one would
think I was their only child. All of those women and more will wail for hours at the loss of my sister, and it crushes
me that I cannot be there to wail with them. These are the times when I miss Papua New Guinea the most. Their way is to
go through the pain, forcefully, and in doing so cauterize it. After the wailing, which will last at least a full day,
there will be little crying. There will be loss, yes, and sadness, but the heart-wrenching, debilitating grief will be
dealt with. There is no other way to survive so much death. As my dad said yesterday, "Life goes on with or without us."
I fear that I will not get the cauterization I would from the PNG custom, and that the pain will haunt me long after it
should. But Bethaney herself dealt with the worst sort of death - the death of children and pregnant women - and found
the strength to continue, and she and I are cut from the same cloth. I'll be OK. We'll all be OK.

While Autumn, my parents, and I cannot be there personally, there is a contingent of local ex-pats that will go in our
stead. Jesse Pryor, who grew up with me and Bethaney and, like her, returned to PNG to live and work, will be there to
represent our family. We had to have permission from the provincial administrator to bury Bethaney in Likan since she is
an ex-pat. Jesse worked to secure that permission. I've attached the letter they received. The Provincial Administrator
had some nice things to say.

When Jesse sent it, my dad thanked him for securing it. Jesse said, "My pleasure. I'd charge hell with a bucket of water
for Bethaney,  and she'd do the same for me." I love that quote -- it sums up the fierce loyalty and friendship she
engendered with everyone she knew. Would that we could all have such relationships in our lives.

There will be some sort of memorial in the US, too. I don't know the details yet. Right now we are focused on the burial
and grieving. I'll share more as I know more.
