---

title: Playing With Ubuntu
date: '2004-10-28T20:04:00-07:00'
tags:
- ubuntu
engineer:
  slug: playing-with-ubuntu
  url: /2004/10/playing-with-ubuntu/

# Custom Properties
guid: http://blog.tylerbutler.com/index.php/2004/10/playing-with-ubuntu/

---

I finally got fed up with XP on my laptop. I don't use it much for games
anymore, so I decided that it was time to try Linux again. I had previously
loaded Suse 9.1 on it over the summer, but I could never get my Linksys WPC54G
PCMCIA wireless card working, no matter what I tried, so I gave up. I didn't
want to shell out cash for a new card, and a laptop without wireless is a
pitiful thing. Also, I used to like KDE, but it looked really bad on my
laptop, and I simply didn't feel like going through all the hassle of trying
to get Gnome up on a KDE-centric distro. Finally at that point I was still
using Outlook (gasp!), and I didn't relish trying to convert everything into
Evolution _again_. So I went back to XP for awhile.

  
Then I made the switch to GMail, and based on some high praise that
[Ubuntu][1] was getting from Patrick and others, I thought I might as well
give it a try. I needed to reformat my laptop anyway, and I figured if I
didn't like it or it didn't work, I could always just put XP back on there.

  
Well, I am proud to say that Ubuntu up and running on my laptop. I was able to
_very_ easily set up my wireless card using [NDiswrapper][2], and there was
even a helpful guide linked to on the Ubuntu website. It doesn't allow me to
monitor link quality and everything, but at least it works.

  
I have never used a Debian-based distro before, but I really like it so far.
The package management has been great, and using alien I've been able to load
up some RPM's as Deb packages as well. I've got [Tomboy][3] running, which is
cool (I'm using it for notes about my upcoming novel), and I am installing
[Beagle][4] as we speak. I like the overall polish of Gnome, but the "spatial
browsing" is driving me nuts. I want an address bar! I suppose I'll get used
to it - it's my only major complaint right now. Well, that and the fact that
there's no IE for Linux (haha). I need it for work - Firefox doesn't render
the application we use for ticket management correctly. I have to use RDP and
log into my server to enter tickets. And I'm still having problems getting
Samba and Web Folders shared between my Windows boxes and Ubuntu. But
hopefully [iFolder][5] will help with that.

  
Anyway, overall I am very pleased with my new setup so far, and have not yet
found any truly compelling reasons to switch back to XP. Here's hoping I
don't. I'm certainly learning a lot more with Linux.

   [1]: http://www.ubuntu-linux.org
   [2]: http://ndiswrapper.sf.net
   [3]: http://beatniksoftware.com/tomboy/
   [4]: http://www.gnome.org/projects/beagle/
   [5]: http://forge.novell.com/modules/xfmod/project/?ifolder

