---

title: '"Then" Vs. "Than"'
date: '2004-12-10T23:09:00-08:00'
tags:
- words
engineer:
  slug: then-vs-than
  url: /2004/12/then-vs-than/

guid: http://blog.tylerbutler.com/index.php/2004/12/then-vs-than/

---

I started looking at some open-source software and came across Blender, a
cool-looking 3D modeling program. On [their homepage][1], I noticed this image
(it may no longer be on their page):

  
![][2]

  
Now what's wrong with this picture? Well, the designer of the image was not
very careful when selecting the words to use. The words "than" and "then,"
while differing only by one letter, are vastly different in meaning. [Then][3]
is most commonly an adverb, but can sometimes be a noun or adjective (time-
related). [Than][4], on the other hand, is a conjunction, used to compare
things. _I am better at English **than** you are_, for example. So when you
want to compare things, as the person making this advertisement image
apparently wanted to, you want to use than.

  
I think the confusion regarding this stems from the use of "then" as a time-
related adjective or noun. For example, "I was there then," or "the then
director of OTS" are valid uses of the word, which confuses people when they
want to compare things, especially in time-related constructs, such as "more
than before." Then implies a previous state of being, so previously -- then -
there were less than there are now. This, I think, is the root of the
confusion. If you really want to get your head spinning, try this: "There were
more employers there then than previously." I _think_ that's grammatically
correct, but many people seem to get this confused. It could also be that they
are often pronounced similarly if not exactly the same, so drill yourself on
it if you're having problems remembering.

  
Since I have noticed some common grammatical and language-related mistakes at
work, in the IPRO, and just on blogs and websites in general, I think I might
start a regular column on here with common problems people have with similar
sounding, yet different meaning words. After all, I am the master of all that
is English. And I [wrote a novel][5].

   [1]: http://www.blender3d.org/ (Blender looks pretty cool.  Too bad I don't have any artistic skills...)
   [2]: /SiteCollectionImages/Post%20Images/then%20than.jpg
   [3]: http://dictionary.reference.com/search?q=then (Check the meaning of then at dictionary.com.)
   [4]: http://dictionary.reference.com/search?q=than (Check the meaning of than at dictionary.com.)
   [5]: /tag/novel (Check out Knot, the novel I wrote as part of NaNoWriMo)
