---

title: November 6th
date: '2004-11-07T07:59:00-08:00'
slug: november-6th
tags:
- novel
- nanowrimo
engineer:
  slug: november-6th
  url: /2004/11/november-6th/

# Custom Properties
guid: http://blog.tylerbutler.com/index.php/2004/11/november-6th/

---

**Chapter 7: Shopping **

Angela ran up and down the aisles, shrieking gleefully at each brightly
colored box of food that she did not recall being there the week before.
Melissa pushed the now overflowing cart behind her rambunctious daughter,
ignoring the disapproving stares of the store employees and other customers.
She'd grown accustomed to them over the years.

“Can we get this, please?” Angela asked, throwing yet another box into the
cart before turning around quickly and running back to grab more useless
products, pony tail bobbing happily. Melissa sighed again. If she could get
paid a nickel, or even just a _penny_, for every sigh she'd uttered since
Angela's birth...

Melissa could hardly wait until Angela was old enough to start dating. That
hellion would eat a boy for breakfast! Melissa nearly laughed out loud at the
thought of some boy seeking Angela's affections, standing at the door with
flowers, nervous upon meeting his date's father. Melissa chuckled again.
Someone frightened of Lawrence , ha! Whatever boy wanted to date Angela would
be in for a surprise, that was for sure. If he could handle _her_, then the
rest of the family would be a piece of cake.

Melissa shook her head sternly as Angela rounded the corner with a new box
in her hand. A shadow fell across the five-year-old's face. The fun and games
were over, it seemed. Melissa motioned with her finger, maintaining the stern
expression on her face.

“Come on, Angie. I told you you had to settle down, and you haven't. Come
on, up in the cart.” She motioned towards the toddler seat in the overloaded
cart.

“But Mommy, I'm not a baby anymore,” Angela replied, putting on her best
pouting face. She looked pitiful, but Melissa was not falling for the act.
Lawrence might, but she was tougher than he, especially when it came to their
daughter.

“Well, you certainly seem to _act_ like a baby, so I think you can ride
like a baby. Come on, up you go.” She lifted the girl and placed her in the
seat. Angela crossed her arms across her chest and forced her frown to become
even more pronounced. It was comical. The entire store seemed to erupt in
silent applause at the site of the annoying blonde trapped in the toddler
chair.

Melissa pushed the cart along each aisle, silently replacing each item that
Angela had placed in the cart, ignoring the small whimpers escaping her mouth
at the loss of each incredibly important item. The rest of the excursion would
transpire in silence, since Angela's method of retribution when wronged was to
keep her mouth shut. Lawrence hated it. If he'd made her angry, he'd spend the
next hour trying to get her to talk to him, but Melissa simply ignored her.
Making her angry was often the only way to get her to shut up anyway.

At last the final one of Angela's contributions to the day's purchases was
replaced on the shelf, and Melissa double checked her short list to ensure
that she had found everything she needed. The cart seemed sparse after
removing all the superfluous items, but she had everything she needed.
Surveying the surrounding aisles quickly for any last-minute things she might
have forgotten, she turned the cart briskly and strode towards the checkout
lines, which were overpopulated with customers.

“OK, Angela, you can have one small thing -- just one. What do you want?”

The girl didn't respond. Apparently she was still angry. Melissa shook her
head and sighed. It was her loss.

She peered around the register lanes, looking for Ned, the nice man who
always helped her to the car and always said something kind to Angela. There
he was, ringing up a constant stream of customers, as usual. The wait in his
line would be worth it. She could use a pick-me-up today.

* * *

Ned was back in his groove. The brief break earlier had really rejuvenated
him, and he'd been visited by several of his regular customers already today,
which kept him feeling good. The pain in his knee had grown duller, and while
still present, was bearable.

He was scanning items more efficiently than he had in awhile, passing item
after item quickly over the glowing red bars of the UPC scanner. He had
explained once to some of the other cashiers how the scanning machine worked.
They all were amazed at his knowledge, and for a brief shining moment, he had
felt like he was himself again. A smart, respected engineer, whose knowledge
of mechanical and electrical machines was belied by his soft eyes and quiet
demeanor.

Of course, Bob had quickly disbanded the small group of listeners to Ned's
explanation, somehow turning a UPC scanner into a major character in the
latest episode of his corporate kiss-ass saga. Holly had been kind enough to
listen to his further explanation during one of their mutual breaks. She had
seemed genuinely interested, though Ned knew she had promptly forgotten
everything he'd said. It didn't matter. She'd given him the chance to feel
smart and useful again, and that was what he needed.

Ned often spent his breaks chatting with Holly when he could. They often sat
out on bench in the parking lot, while Holly smoked a cigarette. She never
failed to offer one to Ned, though he always declined. Truth be told, he found
the habit disgusting and repulsive, but Holly was interesting to be around,
and her presence offset the acrid smell of the smoke. In fact, there were
several things that Ned disapproved of about Holly, and if she had been his
daughter, they certainly would have a lot to discuss. But she wasn't his
daughter, and as their work relationship turned into a true friendship, he
found that the eyebrow piercing and smoking habit defined their relationship
less and less.

He was constantly astounded by her generosity. She often invited the beggars
standing outside to join her for a snack, and always listened to their stories
of heartache and longing. That was her real gift to them, whether they
realized it or not -- the gift of a listening, interested ear. Anyone could
give them a piece of pizza or the loose change in their pocket, but Holly's
genuine concern for them and inquiries about their well-being lasted longer
than both the food and the loose change.

Ned knew that many of the homeless men and women that frequented the area
surrounding the store were residents, either permanent or otherwise, of the
St. Ives shelter. He had mentioned to Holly that she should consider
volunteering there or something, but she seemed reluctant. She always just
smiled and said, “Yeah, Ned, I know,” but to his knowledge, she never had even
set foot in the shelter.

He shot a glance to register 7, where Holly was now busy ringing up her own
long line of customers. She caught his glance and smiled. He smiled back. He
might hate his job, but at least he had to opportunity to become friends with
good people.

“Thanks a lot, Ned. I'll see you next week.”

“You too, Mark. Be careful on the way out, it's a bit slick by the door,” he
replied, referring to the small puddle of soda, remnants of an overactive
bottle of Sprite.

He looked up to identify his next customer, and groaned inwardly as he saw
Melissa and Angela. Melissa was nice enough, but her daughter was a brat. Ned
had seen the way Melissa and Lawrence doted on her every whim, and it made him
sick. If _she'd _ been his daughter -- well, he was just glad she wasn't. He'd
have picked Holly over her any day.

“Hi, Ned! How've you been?” Melissa inquired cheerfully, her smile
contradicted by the obvious tension and exhaustion in her voice.

“Oh, I'm fine, fine. And your husband?”

“He had to work today. It's just me and Angie.”

“Ah, I see. And how are you, little miss?” He smiled, eyes peeking over the
edge of his nose at the girl who looked very angry, arms crossed defiantly
across her chest.

“Fine,” she replied, not looking up.

He began to scan the items on the small conveyor belt. He knew that would
get Angie's attention. She was always intrigued by the speed at which he
loaded the bags, so much faster than any other cashier.

Today was no exception. As the _beep_, _beep_, _beep_, of the scanned
items reverberated in the echoic store, Angela became transfixed on Ned's
hands. They seemed to blur as he scanned and bagged each item with lightning
speed.

Ned grinned at her, willing his arms to move even faster, mentally
confirming that every item had scanned by carefully listening for the
confirmation beep. He was going _fast_ today.

Unexpectedly, his hands faltered. The jar of peanut butter, fortunately
plastic, flew from his fingers and clattered loudly on the tiled floor. The
store seemed to freeze; the all of the customers' attention was focused on
him, and him alone.

The silence was broken by Angela's childish laughter. She clapped her hands
with glee, apparently deriving some sadistic pleasure from Ned's mistake. Ned,
speechless at this unexpected development, knelt down silently and picked up
the jar. He scanned it again and continued, moving more slowly and del
iberately this time.

The rest of the store reanimated itself, and Ned glanced up again to see
Holly still looking his direction. Her eyes asked, “Are you OK?” He nodded
back at her and painted his smile back on before looking back up at Melissa.

“Well, will there be anything else for you this morning?”

“No, Ned, that'll be all. How much do I owe you?”

“Well, you owe me a smile, but the store will want $87.13.” Ned joked back,
trying to shake off the embarrassment he felt at having dropped the peanut
butter. Melissa grinned.

“Well, here's your smile, and here's the check for the store. Can I trust
you to make sure they get it?”

“But of course,” he replied. “Would you like some help getting out to your
car?”

“Well... Actually, yes, that'd be great.”

Ned glanced around, looking for one of the young cart collectors to help
Melissa, but there were none to be found. Oh well. “I'll be right back,
everyone.” He flipped the light on his register off and limped along behind
Melissa to her car, ignoring the faces Angela made at him as they walked. He'd
be glad when they were gone, especially the little brat.

Melissa opened the trunk and Ned quickly loaded the bags into it with his
strong arms, oblivious to the sound of sirens as they passed along the street
in front of the store.

