---

title: Lessons from a Street Performer
date: '2007-08-21T02:08:00-07:00'
tags:
- travel
engineer:
  slug: lessons-from-a-street-performer
  url: /2007/08/lessons-from-a-street-performer/

guid: http://blog.tylerbutler.com/index.php/2007/08/lessons-from-a-street-performer/

---

Should you ever find yourself watching a street performer's act, and you end
up volunteering, either willingly or unwillingly, to be a part of said act,
here's a piece of advice: don't run away when the performer's not looking. If
you do, you might find out later that you're missing something that might be
important to you. This is what happened to Emily, a rather skittish young
German woman who happens to be visiting Brisbane this week, and is now missing
her watch.

While I was walking back to the Kookaburra this afternoon, I passed through
the Queen Street Mall and stopped to view a street magician. Shortly after I
started watching, he approached a girl in the audience to act as his second
"assistant." The girl didn't look particularly happy to have been chosen, but
rather than protest she joined the performer in front of the audience. Soon
she was introduced s Emily from Germany, to much enthusiastic adulation from
the crowd.

The performer continued on with his act, which primarily involved his first
assistant, another young woman named Charlie. While he turned to face Charlie
and continued on, Emily turned and left, running swiftly into the swelling
crowd at the mall. It took a few seconds for both the audience and the
performer to figure out what was happening. The crowd started laughing at her
departure, but the performer yelled after her, "Wait! You're missing
something!" With that, he pulled a hand watch from his pocket and waved it
above his head. Alas, Emily ran on, and was soon lost in the crowd. The
performer looked a bit baffled, jokingly offered the watch to anyone who would
buy it, then continued on with his act (with a new second assistant).

My first thought was that Emily was in on it, but after the act a few people
approached the performer and asked if it was scripted. He explained that it
wasn't. He had removed her watch surreptitiously as part of his act and was
planning to reveal it to her later on. His intention was by no means to steal
her watch, but when she ran off so unexpectedly he didn't know what to do.

So people, if you wind up in a street performer's act, please just be
good-natured about it and participate. It's really not that hard.
