---

title: eBay Scams Are Funny!
date: '2004-07-22T22:16:00-07:00'
engineer:
  slug: ebay-scams-are-funny
  url: /2004/07/ebay-scams-are-funny/

guid: http://blog.tylerbutler.com/index.php/2004/07/ebay-scams-are-funny/

---

eBay used to be safe, and for the most part, I suppose it still is. The honest
people in the world still outnumber the dishonest ones, and I hope it stays
that way forever. But anyone who has used eBay a fair amount has gotten
scammed at least once or twice, or at the very least, received emails from
people fishing for a gullible seller/buyer to scam. I myself paid for a
relatively expensive item that was never sent to me. Luckily, in that case, I
was protected because I went through eBay and they refunded my money. Of
course, I was out a few hundred bucks for about three months while I went
through their fraud process. That pretty much sucks for someone on a
shoestring budget like me (though one has to wonder just how shoestring my
budget is if I can spend hundreds of dollars on eBay... yup, I'm enigmatic
like that...).

  
Anyway, I saw a story on Slashdot about an eBay scammer, and eventually found
this site, [P-P-P-Powerbook.com][1], that chronicles a relatively recent
(April/May 2004) scam story. It's really really funny, and there are some
awesome pictures to go with it. I have the PDF document shared on here, but
I'd really recommend checking the site as well.

  
It's tough to explain quickly what exactly happened. I guess the really
important thing is that the seller, who was trying to sell an Apple Powerbook,
was contacted by a scammer who wanted to buy the Powerbook through an Escrow
site. Eventually the seller decided to scam this scammer, and eventually sent
him a P-P-P-Powerbook, picturres of which are below. Anyway, the story is
quite long and involved, but very humorous, so I'd recommend checking it out.
Some of my favorite picutres are below (there are more in the PDF and at the
site). Oh, and there's also a hilarious site that offers [P-P-P-Powerbooks for
sale][2]. It looks pretty legitimate...

  
Get the PDF story here.

<!--  
![][4]

**Just how much would _you_ pay for a P-P-P-Powerbook?**
  
![][5]

**The Apple engineers determined that this keyboard layout was more effective than the standard QWERTY."**  
  
![][6]

**Apple's latest effort to cut costs.**
  
![][7]

**A quick and easy way way to convert your old roll-mouse to the spiffy new optical technology. Contact me for details.**
-->

   [1]: http://www.p-p-p-powerbook.com/
   [2]: http://bu.dotsomething.net/powerbook/ppppstore.html
