---

title: 'Operation: Look Good, Feel Good'
date: '2005-10-05T17:35:00-07:00'
slug: operation-look-good-feel-good
tags:
- weight loss
engineer:
  slug: operation-look-good-feel-good
  url: /2005/10/operation-look-good-feel-good/

# Custom Properties
guid: http://blog.tylerbutler.com/index.php/2005/10/operation-look-good-feel-good/

---

One of the many benefits of working at [Microsoft][1] is the relatively
little-known weight management benefit. Essentially, the benefit pays for a
large majority of a diet/weight loss/exercise program administered by the [Pro
Club][2], the semi-official Microsoft sports club. I found out about it fairly
soon after I started, and I knew I wanted to get involved, but I didn't have
the time. Finally, about a month ago, I took the plunge and got things going.

  
I've been overweight for as long as I can remember, and though I've been
relatively static the past few years in terms of weight gain, I've known for
awhile that I need to do something about it. Since I'm making use of all the
other Microsoft benefits (getting my teeth fixed, medical check-ups, etc) I
figured I might as well do everything.

  
Anyway, I officially started on the diet last Thursday and the exercise the
previous day. This week I've lost **13.6 pounds.** That's a lot, I know, but I
should put this in perspective. I work out 90 minutes 3 days a week with a
personal trainer, and 60 minutes 3 more days a week by myself. I bought a
heart rate monitor and with the help of Jeremiah, my trainer, am learning how
to do heart-rate-focused work-outs. But the big thing last week was the diet…

  
Basically I ate nothing but chicken, protein shakes, and a little peanut
butter. The dietitian called it ‘detox' and she was right. I had withdrawal
symptoms including severe headaches and numbness in my hands and feet for the
first 4-5 days. It seems like most of it has passed though, and fortunately
this week I get to add veggies back into my diet. I went out for a salad at
lunch and it was quite possibly the best thing I've ever had in my entire life
after 7 days of chicken and protein shakes. I also talked about my aversion to
the protein shakes (I had to drink 5 per day, so I was getting pretty sick of
them) with the dietician and she moved me to another diet without the shakes.

  
I was having a lot of trouble keeping my calories up. I'm supposed to eat
between 1500 and 1600 a day, but last week I averaged ~1300. I was sluggish
and mentally challenged the whole week, so I am eager to get my count back up
so I can feel better while still losing the weight and eating better. I think
I'll be a little happier now with the variety. Plus, with the veggies back and
yogurt coming back next week, I should be good to go.

  
I am pleased with the progress so far, but I do miss the freedom I exercised
previously when it came to food. As things go on, I'll be adding more food
groups back in, so I should be OK. The weirdest thing about the whole program
is the counseling stuff. The counselor is awesome, and I only meet with here
once a month or so, but she gave me a business card that just said Sara
S-----, Psychotherapy. That word just seems scary to me, especially since I
don't consider myself psychotic or even ‘troubled' but whatever.

  
Anyway, 1 week down, 19 left to go.

   [1]: http://www.microsoft.com
   [2]: http://www.proclub.com/

