---

title: The Social Revolution
date: '2007-05-03T18:38:00-07:00'
engineer:
  slug: the-social-revolution
  url: /2007/05/the-social-revolution/

# Custom Properties
guid: http://blog.tylerbutler.com/index.php/2007/05/the-social-revolution/

---

I've been avoiding services like Facebook, MySpace, Friendster and the like
for a long time despite their growing popularity. In the MySpace case, it's a
philosophical choice -- MySpace sites are often so bad! They look horrible,
music plays when you go to them, the formatting is terrible… This is a natural
outcome of pure freedom; when you allow people to customize things and make
them look exactly like they want, you give them the freedom to make horrible
looking stuff. But I'm getting a bit off topic… Anyway, I avoid MySpace sort
of on principal, but I avoid Facebook due to some other reasons that I think
finally crystallized in my mind while attending a roundtable discussion at MIX
that included folks from Six Apart, Twitter, and Facebook.

The guy from Facebook was talking about how they view Facebook as being not an
_extension_ of your identity, but rather a _representation_ of it (my words,
not his; I'm trying to paraphrase the conversation). In other words, your
Facebook simply reflects the things that are happening to you, what's going on
in your life, etc., and then shortens the gap between those events and
occurrences and the people that potentially care about you. Their philosophy
as I understand it is to reduce the amount of overhead that comes with keeping
track of what's going on with people.

That's a noble goal, I suppose, and one I can certainly appreciate given that
I have friends strewn all over the world (ever since the great Diaspora that
was my high school graduation in PNG). It certainly would be nice to always
know what was happening with those folks without ever having to do anything
about it. But I think that's the crux of my opposition to it.

You see, I think there is a great deal of worth in getting an email after a
long time from someone who has taken the time to write you and give you a
brief update about them. It took time and energy for them to write you and
update you on their life -- and I believe it shows they care. This type of rich
interaction with someone occurs more naturally after a time out of touch.

Imagine a 30-year high-school reunion if everyone was on Facebook the entire
time after graduation? Would there be anything to talk about? I suppose the
conversation would revolve around politics, religion, and other matters of
_opinion_, because life events would simply be old news. Everyone would
already know that Sam got married last summer and Mary got a new job. There'd
be no excitement in learning that Joe's son spoke his first words last week or
that Sally was finally able to get that surgery she needed.

If we're always connected to one another all the time, it removes the
excitement and enjoyment that comes from the _re_-connecting after a
disconnect. It's cliché, to be sure, but absence makes the heart grow fonder,
and for that reason, Facebook's just not for me.

